% Options for packages loaded elsewhere
\PassOptionsToPackage{unicode}{hyperref}
\PassOptionsToPackage{hyphens}{url}
%
\documentclass[
]{article}
\usepackage{amsmath,amssymb}
\usepackage{iftex}
\ifPDFTeX
  \usepackage[T1]{fontenc}
  \usepackage[utf8]{inputenc}
  \usepackage{textcomp} % provide euro and other symbols
\else % if luatex or xetex
  \usepackage{unicode-math} % this also loads fontspec
  \defaultfontfeatures{Scale=MatchLowercase}
  \defaultfontfeatures[\rmfamily]{Ligatures=TeX,Scale=1}
\fi
\usepackage{lmodern}
\ifPDFTeX\else
  % xetex/luatex font selection
\fi
% Use upquote if available, for straight quotes in verbatim environments
\IfFileExists{upquote.sty}{\usepackage{upquote}}{}
\IfFileExists{microtype.sty}{% use microtype if available
  \usepackage[]{microtype}
  \UseMicrotypeSet[protrusion]{basicmath} % disable protrusion for tt fonts
}{}
\makeatletter
\@ifundefined{KOMAClassName}{% if non-KOMA class
  \IfFileExists{parskip.sty}{%
    \usepackage{parskip}
  }{% else
    \setlength{\parindent}{0pt}
    \setlength{\parskip}{6pt plus 2pt minus 1pt}}
}{% if KOMA class
  \KOMAoptions{parskip=half}}
\makeatother
\usepackage{xcolor}
\usepackage[margin=1in]{geometry}
\usepackage{longtable,booktabs,array}
\usepackage{calc} % for calculating minipage widths
% Correct order of tables after \paragraph or \subparagraph
\usepackage{etoolbox}
\makeatletter
\patchcmd\longtable{\par}{\if@noskipsec\mbox{}\fi\par}{}{}
\makeatother
% Allow footnotes in longtable head/foot
\IfFileExists{footnotehyper.sty}{\usepackage{footnotehyper}}{\usepackage{footnote}}
\makesavenoteenv{longtable}
\usepackage{graphicx}
\makeatletter
\def\maxwidth{\ifdim\Gin@nat@width>\linewidth\linewidth\else\Gin@nat@width\fi}
\def\maxheight{\ifdim\Gin@nat@height>\textheight\textheight\else\Gin@nat@height\fi}
\makeatother
% Scale images if necessary, so that they will not overflow the page
% margins by default, and it is still possible to overwrite the defaults
% using explicit options in \includegraphics[width, height, ...]{}
\setkeys{Gin}{width=\maxwidth,height=\maxheight,keepaspectratio}
% Set default figure placement to htbp
\makeatletter
\def\fps@figure{htbp}
\makeatother
\setlength{\emergencystretch}{3em} % prevent overfull lines
\providecommand{\tightlist}{%
  \setlength{\itemsep}{0pt}\setlength{\parskip}{0pt}}
\setcounter{secnumdepth}{5}
\newlength{\cslhangindent}
\setlength{\cslhangindent}{1.5em}
\newlength{\csllabelwidth}
\setlength{\csllabelwidth}{3em}
\newlength{\cslentryspacingunit} % times entry-spacing
\setlength{\cslentryspacingunit}{\parskip}
\newenvironment{CSLReferences}[2] % #1 hanging-ident, #2 entry spacing
 {% don't indent paragraphs
  \setlength{\parindent}{0pt}
  % turn on hanging indent if param 1 is 1
  \ifodd #1
  \let\oldpar\par
  \def\par{\hangindent=\cslhangindent\oldpar}
  \fi
  % set entry spacing
  \setlength{\parskip}{#2\cslentryspacingunit}
 }%
 {}
\usepackage{calc}
\newcommand{\CSLBlock}[1]{#1\hfill\break}
\newcommand{\CSLLeftMargin}[1]{\parbox[t]{\csllabelwidth}{#1}}
\newcommand{\CSLRightInline}[1]{\parbox[t]{\linewidth - \csllabelwidth}{#1}\break}
\newcommand{\CSLIndent}[1]{\hspace{\cslhangindent}#1}
\usepackage{setspace}\doublespacing
\usepackage[fontsize=12pt]{scrextend}
\usepackage[left]{lineno}
\usepackage[labelformat=empty]{caption}
\usepackage{longtable}
\usepackage{booktabs}
\ifLuaTeX
  \usepackage{selnolig}  % disable illegal ligatures
\fi
\IfFileExists{bookmark.sty}{\usepackage{bookmark}}{\usepackage{hyperref}}
\IfFileExists{xurl.sty}{\usepackage{xurl}}{} % add URL line breaks if available
\urlstyle{same}
\hypersetup{
  hidelinks,
  pdfcreator={LaTeX via pandoc}}

\author{}
\date{\vspace{-2.5em}}

\begin{document}

\hypertarget{title-page}{%
\section{Title Page}\label{title-page}}

\textbf{Title:} Dynamic predictive templates in perception\\

\textbf{Authors}:

Veith Weilnhammer\(^{1}\), Yuki Murai\(^{2}\), David Whitney\(^{1}\)\\

\hfill\break
\textbf{Affiliations and Contribution}:

\(^{1}\) Helen Wills Neuroscience Institute, University of California
Berkeley, USA\\
\(^{2}\) Center for Information and Neural Networks, National Institute
of Information and Communications Technology, Osaka, Japan\\
\(^{3}\) Graduate School of Frontier Biosciences, Osaka University,
Japan\\

\hfill\break

\textbf{Corresponding Author}:

Veith Weilnhammer, Helen Wills Neuroscience Institute, University of
California Berkeley, USA, email:
\href{mailto:veith.weilnhammer@gmail.com}{\nolinkurl{veith.weilnhammer@gmail.com}}\\
\strut \\
\textbf{Word Count}: 2242 words (main text without methods)\\

\newpage
\linenumbers

\hypertarget{summary}{%
\section{Summary}\label{summary}}

False alarms occur when participants report a signal that was not
presented. Hallucinations reflect perceptual experiences that unfold in
the absence of an external cause. To serve as an experimental proxy for
hallucinations, false alarms must meet two criteria: First, false alarms
should not only reflect erroneous reports of a signal, but represent
perceptual states that are characterized by specific contents. Second,
false alarms should occur on a timescale compatible with the temporal
dynamics of hallucinations. In this work, we combined a classification
image approach with Hidden Markov Models to show that false alarms can
match the perceptual and temporal characteristics of hallucinations. We
asked healthy human participants to discriminate difficult-to-detect
visual stimuli from noise, and found that false alarms were more likely
to occur during an internal mode of sensory processing, a minute-long
state of the brain during which the content of perception is strongly
biased toward previous experiences. Our results suggest that
hallucinations are driven by dynamic predictive templates that transform
noise into transient, recurring, coherent, and meaningful perceptual
experiences.

\hypertarget{results}{%
\section{Results}\label{results}}

Hallucinations are vivid and transient experiences of objects, such as
images or sounds, that occur in the absence of a corresponding
stimulus\textsuperscript{1--7}. These phenomena occur across a wide
spectrum of neuropsychiatric disorders, but are particularly
characteristic of schizophrenia, a severe and chronic mental health
condition typically associated with repeated episodes of
psychosis\textsuperscript{6,8,9}.

To better understand the computational and neural mechanisms of
hallucinations, cognitive neuroscience has primarily focused on
experiments that induce false alarms (FA) in healthy
participants\textsuperscript{1--5,7}, psychosis prone
individuals\textsuperscript{1,3,4}, and patients diagnosed with
schizophrenia\textsuperscript{5}. FAs occur when participants make
decisions about difficult-to-detect stimuli, and report the presence of
a signal that was, in fact, not presented.

Previous studies have shown that FA become more likely when people
\emph{expect} the presence of a stimulus. In line with this idea, FAs
can be induced via cross-modal conditioning\textsuperscript{1,3--5} and
manipulations of signal probability\textsuperscript{7}. A number of
empirical findings indicate that such conditioned FAs may provide a
window into the neural mechanisms of hallucinations: Conditioned FAs are
more frequent in hallucination-prone individuals\textsuperscript{1--4,7}
and patients diagnosed with schizophrenia\textsuperscript{5}. Moreover,
they can be triggered by dopamine\textsuperscript{7}, an established
molecular endophenotype of schizophrenia\textsuperscript{10}, as well as
by ketamine\textsuperscript{7}, a NMDA-receptor antagonist that elicits
psychotic symptoms\textsuperscript{11}.

However, one of the most important limitations in the current
state-of-the art is that FAs are, at heart, reports. What remains to be
established is whether FAs are accompanied by perceptual experiences.
Even though hallucinations have varying phenomenological properties
across the disorders in which they occur, and may reflect unstructured
noise-like percepts, particularly at early stages of psychotic illness,
they are typically associated with specific perceptual contents that
have meaning to the afflicted individual\textsuperscript{12--14}.
Moreover, the focus on behavioral reports has led previous studies to
investigate FAs at the level of individual stimulus presentations within
signal detection experiments\textsuperscript{1,7}. This assumes that the
underlying mechanisms are isolated events that depend, at least in part,
on an experimental intervention\textsuperscript{1,3--5,7},
trait\textsuperscript{1--5,7} or diagnosis\textsuperscript{5}.
Hallucinations, by contrast, are neither momentary nor constant, but
typically unfold as coherent and transient experiences over the course
of seconds, minutes or hours\textsuperscript{15,16}.

Here, we present a novel paradigm that can help to determine whether FAs
share the perceptual and temporal characteristics of hallucinations.
First, we use a classification image approach\textsuperscript{17} to
show that FAs cannot be reduced to behavioral reports, but occur when
the external sensory input matches the features of an internal
predictive template that is defined by a specific perceptual content
(criterion 1). Second, we apply Hidden Markov Models\textsuperscript{18}
(HMMs) to show that FA, and the underlying predictive templates, are
linked to recurring minute-long intervals of internal mode processing, a
state of the brain during which the content of perception is strongly
biased toward previous experiences (criterion 2).

\hypertarget{criterion-1-the-perceptual-quality-of-fas}{%
\subsection{Criterion 1: The perceptual quality of
FAs}\label{criterion-1-the-perceptual-quality-of-fas}}

According to Bayes theorem, alarms (\(P(signal|input)\)) become likely
when people expect to see a signal (\(P(signal)\), prior), and when the
features of a noisy input are compatible with the expected signal
(\(P(input|signal)\), likelihood). In natural environments, where the
recent past is a predictor of the near future, previous stimuli may
induce expectations about what is likely to be perceived
next\textsuperscript{19,20}. This generates predictive templates that
integrate experiences over time\textsuperscript{21}
(\(P(signal|input) = P(signal) \times P(input|signal)\)), giving rise to
the phenomenon of perceptual serial dependence\textsuperscript{22--26}.

Predictive templates may improve the interpretation of noisy but
predictable sensory inputs\textsuperscript{21,27}. When overly strong,
however, predictive templates may cause people to experience spurious
signals in noise (\(P(signal|noise)\)). With respect to the study of
hallucinations, the critical question is whether FAs are driven solely
by signal expectations (\(P(signal)\), prior), in which case they may
just be behavioral responses without any perceptual quality, or if they
also depend on the compatibility of the noise with the expected signal
(\(P(noise|signal)\), likelihood). The latter case would indicate that
FAs are accompanied by perceptual experiences with a specific content.

To test the contribution of prior and likelihood to FAs, we analyzed
data from 22 participants who judged whether close-to vertical gratings
(signals) were present (alarms) or absent (rejections) in white noise
image (Figure 1A). The alarm rate depended on three factors: the
contrast of the signal at the current trial (\(4.38\) ± \(0.07\), z =
\(60.76\), p < \(\ensuremath{2.2\times 10^{-308}}\)), the contrast of the signal at the preceding trial
(\(0.11\) ± \(0.03\), z = \(4.33\), p =
\(\ensuremath{1.5\times 10^{-5}}\), Figure 2), and the relative power of
the current noise image at close-to-vertical orientations (60 to 120
degrees), relative to the total power over all orientations (\(0.1\) ±
\(0.01\), z = \(8.97\), p = \(\ensuremath{2.9\times 10^{-19}}\), Figure
1B).

This confirms that FAs were driven by predictive templates: FAs were
more likely when the stimulus presented at the preceding trial induced a
strong signal expectation (\(P(signal)\)), and when the sensory noise at
the current trial matched the features of the expected signal
(\(P(noise|signal)\)). To visualize these predictive templates, we
subtracted the noise power at rejection trials from the noise power at
alarm trials (Figure 3). The resulting classification
images\textsuperscript{17} revealed a noise power peak at
close-to-vertical-orientations (\(0.1\) ± \(0.02\),
T(\(\ensuremath{1.37\times 10^{4}}\)) = \(7.24\), p =
\(\ensuremath{4.84\times 10^{-13}}\)) that matched the average
orientation of the signals.

If FAs were simply lapses or biases in response behavior, one would
expect a flat classification image that mirrors the overall flat
power-by-orientation distribution in the white noise stimuli used in our
experiment. This was clearly not the case: FAs occurred more frequently
at noise stimuli that matched a feature of the signal (high power at
close-to-vertical orientations; Figure 3). Critically, observers learned
the features of the average signal from the experiences they made
throughout the experiment.

Our findings therefore support criterion 1: at the time of FAs,
observers perceived specific contents - in this case, gratings with a
close-to-vertical orientation. The hallucinated content was determined
by predictive templates that are generated by the sequence of preceding
experiences\textsuperscript{21--26}
(\(P(signal|noise) = P(signal) \times P(noise|signal)\)).

\hypertarget{criterion-2-the-temporal-dynamics-of-predictive-templates}{%
\subsection{Criterion 2: The temporal dynamics of predictive
templates}\label{criterion-2-the-temporal-dynamics-of-predictive-templates}}

Hallucinations are transient, coherent, an often-meaningful experiences
that unfold over time\textsuperscript{12--16}. A valid experimental
proxy for hallucinations should therefore fluctuate at a timescale
compatible with the duration of hallucinatory experiences. In the case
of FAs, this means that the underlying predictive templates should be
dynamic, and generate recurrent and transient intervals during which
perception is strongly biased toward previous experiences.

To assess the temporal dynamics of the predictive templates, we
estimated HMMs that inferred transitions between two latent states, each
linked to a General Linear Model (GLM) that predicted trial-wise
responses \(y_t\) (alarms versus rejections) from the signal contrast at
the current trial (\(\beta_s \times s_t\)) and the response at the
preceding trial (\(\beta_H \times y_{t-1}\), Figure 1C). In line with
previous results\textsuperscript{18,20}, the HMMs revealed slow
alternations between an external mode, where perception closely followed
external stimulus (\(\beta_S > \beta_H\)), and an internal mode, where
perception was strongly biased by preceding experiences (\(\beta_S\)
\textless{} \(\beta_H\), Figure 1C).

Bayesian model comparison indicated that the two-state GLM provided a
more parsimonious description of the data than the one-state control
model (reduction in BIC: \(\delta_{BIC}\) =
\(\ensuremath{-1.12\times 10^{3}}\); see Supplemental Figure S1 for
control analyses on randomly permuted data, for which the advantage of
the two-state GLM was lost).

Participants spent \(28.7\) ± \(3.5\)\% of their time in internal mode,
with alternation between modes occurring in intervals of \(59.1\) ±
\(8.8\) trials, corresponding to \(118.21\) ± \(17.6\) sec.~External and
internal mode fluctuated spontaneously, and were only marginally
modulated by the contrast of the signal grating (Supplemental Figure
S2). The GLMs that defined the external and internal mode were
independent from the orientation of the signal, the contrast of the
signal at the preceding trial, and the power-by-orientation distribution
of the noise. Any between-mode difference in the classification images
was therefore indicative of dynamic changes in the underlying predictive
templates.

We found that the internal mode increased the rate of FAs relative to
external mode (\(0.1\) ± \(0.02\), T(\(109\)) = \(4.61\), p =
\(\ensuremath{1.1\times 10^{-5}}\), Figure 2). In the internal mode,
perception depended more on the contrast of the stimulus presented at
the preceding trial (\(1\) ± \(0.06\), z = \(16.86\), p =
\(\ensuremath{8.76\times 10^{-64}}\)) and less on contrast of the
stimulus presented at the current trial (\(-1.16\) ± \(0.15\), z =
\(-7.64\), p = \(\ensuremath{2.18\times 10^{-14}}\)). The effect of
signal expectations (\(P(signal)\)) on perception were thus exaggerated
during the internal mode.

Alarms during the internal mode were associated with a close-to-vertical
noise-power-peak that was shifted toward the orientation of the stimulus
presented at the preceding trial (\(19.87\) ± \(6.73\), T(\(20.28\)) =
\(2.95\), p = \(\ensuremath{7.82\times 10^{-3}}\), Figure 3). This shift
was not observed during the external mode (\(-3.67\) ± \(6.27\),
T(\(20.15\)) = \(-0.59\), p = \(0.56\)). This suggests that the
predictive templates, and the associated bias in the content of
perception toward previous experiences, were particularly strong during
the internal mode.

Our findings therefore confirmed criterion 2: the predictive templates
that drive FAs are dynamic and fluctuate according to two opposing
external and internal modes of perception. Alternations between modes
occurred at the order of minutes, and were thus compatible with the
temporal duration of hallucinations. During the internal mode, FAs were
associated with hallucinated contents that were skewed toward previous
experiences.

\hypertarget{discussion}{%
\section{Discussion}\label{discussion}}

Our results indicate that the FAs observed here are dynamic perceptual
phenomena, which are characterized by specific content and are driven by
dynamic predictive templates. These templates fluctuate in intervals of
several minutes and are particularly strong during internal modes of
sensory processing. This confirms that FAs induced by signal-detection
experiments can match the perceptual\textsuperscript{12--14} and
temporal\textsuperscript{15,16} quality of hallucinations.

Our findings suggest that FAs, and potentially hallucinations, are
linked to alternations between external and internal modes of
perception. External and internal modes have repeatedly been observed in
mice\textsuperscript{20,28}, healthy human
participants\textsuperscript{20}, and patients diagnosed with
schizophrenia\textsuperscript{18}. We found that the internal mode not
only increased the rate of FAs, but also enhanced the extent to which
the content perceived at the time of FAs was skewed toward previous
experiences.

This finding points to a tentative mechanism for how hallucinations
emerge, persist, and end: During the internal mode, a hallucination may
emerge as a FA that occurs when (i), a specific context induces signal
expectations (e.g., hearing the neighbors voice in one's apartment,
\(P(signal)\)) and (ii), the sensory input is compatible with the
average features of the expected signal (e.g., construction noise that
matches the features of human speech, \(P(input|signal)\)). The internal
mode enhances the effect of preceding experiences on perception and may
allow the hallucinated content to persist over time as a coherent
experience. A transition from internal to external mode greatly reduces
the strength of the predictive template in which the hallucination
unfolds, ultimately causing the end of the experience. Future research
could test this hypothesis by testing whether FAs, and ultimately the
hallucinations experienced by people living with psychotic symptoms, can
be mitigated by interventions that disrupt the internal mode.

During the internal mode, the average vectors of the classification
images were displaced by \(20.18\) ± \(3.12\) degrees from vertical
(Figure 3). The direction of the vectors depended on the predictive
template, i.e., the orientation of the stimulus presented at the
preceding trial. Interestingly, the displacement of the classification
vectors from vertical was larger than the orientation of the
high-contrast gratings (-10 and 10 degrees from vertical, Figure 1A),
which were most effective at inducing FAs during the internal mode
(Figure 2). Since the high-contrast gratings stood out from the other
stimuli in terms of contrast and orientation (low contrast gratings were
presented at orientation ranging from -3 to 3, Figure 1A-B), one may
suspect that the perceived orientation of the high-contrast grating
exceeded their veridical orientation. An alternative explanation may be
that FAs experiences exaggerated the features of the inducer, just as
hallucinations often portray exaggerated version of everyday stimuli
(such as hallucinated speech that stands out in terms of tone, pitch, or
extreme content\textsuperscript{12--14}).

Our findings suggests a key role of serial
dependence\textsuperscript{22--25} and predictive
templates\textsuperscript{26} for how hallucinations emerge and persist
over time. This view overlaps with the so-called strong prior account of
schizophrenia\textsuperscript{9}, where psychotic symptoms, and in
particular hallucinations, are thought to occur due to an exaggerated
effect of prior predictions on perception\textsuperscript{1--5,7}. At
the same time, they seem at odds with the observation that priors are
less influential in psychosis prone individuals\textsuperscript{29} and
patients diagnosed with schizophrenia\textsuperscript{30} (the weak
prior account of schizophrenia\textsuperscript{8}). So far, attempts to
reconcile these disparate set of findings have argued that priors may be
either weak or strong depending on the stage of psychotic
illness\textsuperscript{9} (weak priors in early stages, and strong
priors in later stages) or the cognitive hierarchy\textsuperscript{9}
(weak priors at the perceptual level, and strong priors at the cognitive
level).

The fact that FAs, and potentially psychotic symptoms such as
hallucinations, are tied to recurrent alternations between external and
internal modes of perception may provide an alternative explanation for
the apparent discrepancy between strong and weak priors: Psychosis prone
individuals and patients diagnosed with schizophrenia may share general
propensity toward the external mode, which reduces the effects of priors
on perception\textsuperscript{29} and drives erratic responses to
ambiguous sensory information\textsuperscript{18}. During the internal
mode, psychosis prone individuals and patients diagnosed with
schizophrenia may have stronger predictive templates that trigger and
shape the content of hallucinations. The combination of classification
images and HMMs provides a novel analytical framework to test this
hypothesis, may help to advance our theoretical understanding of
schizophrenia, and can pave the way towards innovations in mental health
that benefit people living with psychotic symptoms.

\newpage

\hypertarget{methods}{%
\section{Methods}\label{methods}}

\hypertarget{lead-contact}{%
\subsection{Lead contact}\label{lead-contact}}

Further information and requests for resources should be directed to and
will be fulfilled by the lead contact, Veith Weilnhammer
(\href{mailto:veith.weilnhammer@gmail.com}{\nolinkurl{veith.weilnhammer@gmail.com}}).

\hypertarget{materials-availability}{%
\subsection{Materials availability}\label{materials-availability}}

This study did not generate new unique reagents.

\hypertarget{data-and-code-availability}{%
\subsection{Data and code
availability}\label{data-and-code-availability}}

All custom code and behavioral data are available on
\url{https://github.com/veithweilnhammer/predictive_templates}. This
manuscript was created using the \emph{R Markdown} framework, which
integrates all data-related computations and the formatted text within
one document. With this, we wish to make our approach fully transparent
and reproducible for reviewers and future readers.

\hypertarget{experimental-model-and-subject-details}{%
\subsection{Experimental model and subject
details}\label{experimental-model-and-subject-details}}

\hypertarget{apparatus}{%
\paragraph{Apparatus}\label{apparatus}}

The participants viewed visual stimuli on a gamma-corrected CRT monitor
(Sony Trinitron Multiscan G520, 1024x768 pixels, 100 Hz refresh rate,
Konica Minolta LS-110 luminometer for gamma correction) at a viewing
distance of 57.3 cm, with head stabilization provided by a chin rest.

\hypertarget{stimuli-and-procedure}{%
\subsubsection{Stimuli and Procedure}\label{stimuli-and-procedure}}

All stimuli were presented using MATLAB (MathWorks, R2017a) and the
Psychophysics Toolbox. In 44\% of the trials, we presented low-contrast
near-to-vertical Gabor patches which were embedded in static white
noise. In another 44\% of the trials, we presented only static white
noise. The remaining 12\% of the trials featured a high-contrast Gabor
patch (40\% Michelson contrast) embedded in white noise. This
high-contrast inducer was introduce to boost the phenomenon of serial
dependency. The inducers were oriented 10 degrees clockwise or
counterclockwise relative to vertical, and presented in intervals
randomized between 4 and 10 trials. Stimuli were displayed for 500 ms,
with a maximum white noise contrast of 60\%. To reduce potential
luminance aftereffects, the signal was masked by low-pass filtered
luminance contrast noise (100\% contrast) for 500 ms, and the Gabor
phase was randomized across trials.

Visual stimuli measured 14 x 14 degrees of visual angle (d.v.a.), with
Gabor patches confined to a Gaussian contrast envelope with a 3 d.v.a.
standard deviation. The spatial frequency of the Gabor patches was 0.5
cycles per degree (cpd), with orientation randomized within ±3 degrees
relative to vertical for low-contrast gratings. High-contrast gratings
were presented at ±10 degrees. Participants were tasked to judge the
presence or absence of the near-vertical Gabor in the noisy image. We
adjusted the signal contrast on a participant-by-participant basis to
achieve a d' of approximately 1.5 using data from preliminary
experiments. Each session consisted of 100 trials, with inter-trial
intervals randomized between 800-1200 ms. Participants completed 15-25
sessions in about 2 hours.

The raw data were published in a previous report on serial dependencies
in perception\textsuperscript{17}. The re-analysis presented here
focuses on a different question (the perceptual and temporal quality of
FAs as a proxy for hallucinations) and uses a different analytical
approach (HMM-GLMs).

\hypertarget{quantification-and-statistical-analysis}{%
\subsubsection{Quantification and Statistical
Analysis}\label{quantification-and-statistical-analysis}}

Responses were categorized into one of four stimulus-response types:
Hits (alarms on stimulus trials), correct rejections (rejections on
no-stimulus trials), FAs (alarms on no-stimulus trials), and misses
(rejections on stimulus trials). We employed standard logistic and
linear regression using R-packages lmer, glmer, and afex (see
Supplemental Table S1).

\hypertarget{classification-images}{%
\paragraph{Classification images}\label{classification-images}}

Following previous approaches\textsuperscript{17}, we filtered each
static white noise image with the Gaussian stimulus envelope, applied
fast 2-D Fourier-transformation, and extracted the power at the Gabor
patch's spatial frequency, separately for orientations from 0 to 180
degrees in three degree intervals. For every image, we computed the
average power between 60 to 120 degrees, relative to the overall power
from complete orientation range. To visualize the classification images,
we subtracted the average power-by-orientation at rejection trials from
the average power-by-orientation at alarm trials. To examine serial
dependence, the same analysis was conducted separately for trials
following clockwise (CW) and counter-clockwise (CCW) inducers. In each
condition and participant, we determined the average vector of the
classification image by computing the centroid of a polygon composed of
vector endpoints in polar coordinates.

\hypertarget{hidden-markov-modeling}{%
\paragraph{Hidden Markov Modeling}\label{hidden-markov-modeling}}

We used General Linear Models (GLM) to predict the response \(y_t\) (0:
rejection: 1: alarm) from the contrast at the current trial (\(s_t\):
zero contrast, low contrast, high contrast) and the response at the
preceding trial \(y_{t-1}\):

\begin{equation}
P(y_t = 1 | x_t) = \frac{1}{1 + e^{-x_t \times w}} 
\end{equation}

\begin{equation}
x_t \times w =  s_t \times \beta_s + y_{t-1} \times \beta_H
\end{equation}

We then used Hidden Markov Models (HMMs, as implemented in the
\emph{SSM: Bayesian learning and inference for state space models}
python library, \url{https://github.com/lindermanlab/ssm}) to model
transitions between two latent states \(k\) and \(j\). At each trial,
the HMM predicted the latent state \(z_t\) was \(k\) or \(j\), with
alternation between \(k\) and \(j\) that were governed by a 2 x 2
transition matrix \(A\):

Each latent state was linked to an independent GLM that predicted
\(y_t\) from \(s_t\) and \(y_{t-1}\) based on the weights \(w_{j/k}\):

\begin{equation}
P(y_t = 1 | x_t, z_t) = \frac{1}{1 + e^{-x_t \times w_{k/j}}} 
\end{equation}

\begin{equation}
x_t \times w_{k/j} =  s_t \times \beta_{s,k/j} + y_{t-1} \times \beta_{p,k/j} 
\end{equation}

For both states, parameters were initialized at the regression weights
of a one-state control GLM. To compare the performance of the two-state
GLM relative to the one-state control GLM, we computed the difference in
Bayesian Information Criterion (BIC) between the two models. The SSM
hyperparameters were defined as follows: \(\sigma^2\) = 10 (variance
over the GLM weights \(w_{k/j}\), and \(\alpha\) = 1 (Dirichlet prior
over the transition matrix \(A\)) was set to 1. The latent states \(k\)
and \(j\) were linked to mode by comparing \(\beta_s\) and \(\beta_H\)
(external mode: \(\beta_s\) \textgreater{} \(\beta_H\), internal mode:
\(\beta_H\) \textgreater{} \(\beta_s\)). We labelled trial as external
when \(P(z_t = external) = 1 - P(z_t = internal) > 0.5\).

\newpage

\hypertarget{declaration-of-interest}{%
\section{Declaration of Interest}\label{declaration-of-interest}}

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

\hypertarget{acknowledgements}{%
\section{Acknowledgements}\label{acknowledgements}}

This work was supported by the Leopoldina German National Academy of
Sciences (VW, LDPS2022-16), the Grants-in-Aid for Scientific Research
(YM; KAKENHI-23K22375, 23KK0046), and the National Institute of Health
(DW, NIH R01CA236793).

\newpage

\hypertarget{figures}{%
\section{Figures}\label{figures}}

\hypertarget{figure-1}{%
\subsection{Figure 1}\label{figure-1}}

\includegraphics{./predictive_templates_files/figure-latex/Figure_1.png}

\textbf{Figure 1.}

\textbf{A. Paradigm.} Participants were instructed to report whether
they perceived (close-to-) vertical gratings embedded in noise (left
panel). At stimulus trials, gratings were presented either at low or at
high contrast. At no-stimulus trials, no grating was presented (contrast
= 0). We reasoned that alarms would be more frequent when participant
expect to experience a signal, and when the sensory noise is compatible
with the predicted signal
((\(P(signal|noise) = P(signal) \times P(noise|signal)\), upper panel).
We induced signal expectations \(P(signal)\) by presenting stimuli in
sequence (right panel). We hypothesized that such a sequence would
induce false alarms (FAs) via the phenomenon of serial dependence.
Serial dependencies cause perception to be biased toward preceding
experiences, causing alarms to be more likely to be followed by alarms,
and rejections more likely to be followed by rejections. Since serial
dependencies are known to be stronger after confident experiences, we
predicted that FAs would be more frequent after high-contrast stimuli.
In the example shown on the right, our hypothesis therefore predicts
that FAs would me most likely at the 2nd and 7th trial.

\textbf{B. Predictive perceptual templates.} To compute the
compatibility of the white noise with the expected signal
(\(P(noise|signal)\)), we subtracted the power-by-orientation
distribution of the random white noise images at rejection trials (blue)
from the power-by-orientation distribution of the random noise images at
alarm trials (red). The right panel shows the power-by-orientation
distributions of 20 example stimuli that occurred at alarm and rejection
trials, respectively.

\textbf{C. External and internal modes in perception.} Perception is
known to slowly alternate between two opposing modes (left panel):
During the external mode, perception is dominated by incoming stimuli,
with weak serial dependencies between subsequent trials (grey arrows).
By contrast, during the internal mode, perception is strongly biased by
preceding experiences (strong serial dependencies, black arrows). The
examples depicted within the circles illustrate the effect of external
and internal mode on perception: In the external mode, perception
dissociates from predictions that stem from serial dependencies, such
that alarms (red) and rejections (blue) are equally likely to occur
after high-contrast stimuli. In the internal mode, perception is
strongly biased toward previous experiences, causing alarms (red) to be
more frequent after high-contrast stimuli. Between-mode alternations can
by discovered by Hidden Markov Models (HMM). HMMs describe alternations
between two independent General Linear Models (GLMs), each of which
predicts perceptual experiences \(y_t\) via weights assigned to the
stimulus \(\beta_S \times s_t\) at the current trial, and the experience
made at the preceding trial \(\beta_H \times y_{t-1}\). In this
experiment, the GLM-HMM discovered an external mode (\(71.3\) ±
\(3.5\)\% percent of trials), during which \(\beta_S\) is high while
\(\beta_H\) is low (middle and right panels), and an internal mode
(\(28.7\) ± \(3.5\)\% percent of trials), during which \(\beta_S\) is
low while \(\beta_H\) is high.

\newpage

\hypertarget{figure-2}{%
\subsection{Figure 2}\label{figure-2}}

\includegraphics{predictive_templates_files/figure-latex/rev_Figure_2-1.pdf}

\textbf{Figure 2. The effect of serial dependencies on alarms and
rejections depend on mode.} The global alarm rate correlated positively
with the contrast of stimuli presented at the preceding trial (\(0.11\)
± \(0.03\), z = \(4.33\), p = \(\ensuremath{1.5\times 10^{-5}}\)). This
suggests that serial dependencies contribute to FAs. When separating our
data in episodes of external and internal modes, we found positive
serial dependencies only during the internal mode (\(0.96\) ± \(0.06\),
z = \(16.96\), p = \(\ensuremath{1.71\times 10^{-64}}\)). During the
external mode, by contrast, we observed a negative correlation between
alarm rate and preceding stimulus contrast (\(-0.19\) ± \(0.03\), z =
\(-6.31\), p = \(\ensuremath{2.72\times 10^{-10}}\)).

\newpage

\hypertarget{figure-3}{%
\subsection{Figure 3}\label{figure-3}}

\includegraphics{predictive_templates_files/figure-latex/rev_Figure_3-1.pdf}

\textbf{Figure 3. The effect of predictive templates on alarms and
rejections depends on mode.} Globally, the classification images
computed for alarms (power-by-orientation distribution at alarm trials
relative to the power-by-orientation distribution at rejection trials)
revealed a peak around 90°. This corresponds to the average orientation
of the signal (\(0.1\) ± \(0.02\), T(\(\ensuremath{1.37\times 10^{4}}\))
= \(7.24\), p = \(\ensuremath{4.84\times 10^{-13}}\)). During the
internal mode, we found a shift of the close-to-vertical noise power
peak toward the orientation of the preceding stimulus (\(19.87\) ±
\(6.73\), T(\(20.28\)) = \(2.95\), p =
\(\ensuremath{7.82\times 10^{-3}}\); classification images after
clockwise stimuli {[}CW{]} in green, counter-clockwise {[}CCW{]} in
orange; dots indicate position of the average vector; orientations
greater than 90 degrees indicate CW displacement). This shift was not
observed during the external mode (\(-3.67\) ± \(6.27\), T(\(20.15\)) =
\(-0.59\), p = \(0.56\)).

\newpage

\hypertarget{supplementary-information}{%
\section{Supplementary Information}\label{supplementary-information}}

\hypertarget{supplemental-figure-s1}{%
\subsection{Supplemental Figure S1}\label{supplemental-figure-s1}}

\includegraphics{predictive_templates_files/figure-latex/rev_Supplemental_Figure_S1-1.pdf}
\textbf{Supplemental Figure S1.} We used Bayesian model comparison to
evaluate whether the two-state HMM-GLM (number of parameters: 8)
provided a more parsimonious explanation of our data in comparison to
the one-state control model (number of parameters: 2). To compare the
two models, we computed the difference in
\(\text{BIC} = \log(N) \times k - 2 \times \log(L)\). Relative to the
one-state GLM, the two-state HMM-GLM yielded a reduction in BIC by
\(\delta_{BIC}\) = \(\ensuremath{-1.12\times 10^{3}}\) (red). We did not
observe this reduction when we randomly shuffled the trials for a total
of 100 iterations, and computed BICs for these randomly permuted data
(average \(\delta_{BIC}\) = \(-323.8\); blue). As expected, shuffling
did not have an effect on BIC in the one-state control GLM.

\newpage

\hypertarget{supplemental-figure-s2}{%
\subsection{Supplemental Figure S2}\label{supplemental-figure-s2}}

\includegraphics{predictive_templates_files/figure-latex/Supplemental_Figure_S2-1.pdf}

\textbf{Supplemental Figure S2.} As an alternative explanation for
external and internal modes, one may assume a response heuristic that
uses the external sensory data when it is reliable (i.e., at
high-contrast trials), and applies internal predictions when the
external sensory data is not reliable (i.e., no-stimulus and
low-contrast trials). The latter explanation would entail that the
trial-wise probability of external mode depends exclusively on contrast.
We found that the probability of the external mode was higher when the
contrast at the current trial was high (\(0.19\) ± \(0.03\), z =
\(7.58\), p = \(\ensuremath{3.51\times 10^{-14}}\)). Likewise, the
external mode was more likely when the contrast of the stimulus
presented at the preceding trial was high (\(0.22\) ± \(0.03\), z =
\(8.5\), p = \(\ensuremath{1.82\times 10^{-17}}\)). This may suggest
that stimuli with high signal-to-noise ratio make switches to the
external mode more likely. However, the overall change in the
probability of external mode was small, ranging form a minimum of
\(69.12\)\% to a maximum of \(76.56\)\%. Moreover, the average interval
between mode switches (\(59.1\) ± \(8.8\) trials) was almost eight times
longer than the average interval between high-contrast stimuli (\(8.66\)
± \(0.06\) trials). Our analyses therefore reveal a potential role of
high signal-to-noise ratio for mode alternations. They are, however, not
compatible with the view that external and internal modes reflect
response strategies applied exclusively to stimuli at high and low
signal-to-noise ratio, respectively.

\newpage

\hypertarget{supplemental-table-s1}{%
\subsection{Supplemental Table S1}\label{supplemental-table-s1}}

\begin{longtable}[]{@{}
  >{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{(\columnwidth - 4\tabcolsep) * \real{0.3148}}
  >{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{(\columnwidth - 4\tabcolsep) * \real{0.4537}}
  >{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{(\columnwidth - 4\tabcolsep) * \real{0.2315}}@{}}
\toprule\noalign{}
\begin{minipage}[b]{\linewidth}\raggedright
RESOURCE
\end{minipage} & \begin{minipage}[b]{\linewidth}\raggedright
SOURCE
\end{minipage} & \begin{minipage}[b]{\linewidth}\raggedright
IDENTIFIER
\end{minipage} \\
\midrule\noalign{}
\endhead
\bottomrule\noalign{}
\endlastfoot
\textbf{Deposited data \& code} & & \\
Analyzed data \& custom code &
\url{https://github.com/veithweilnhammer/predictive_templates/} & N/A \\
\textbf{Software} & & \\
\textbf{Python 3} & \url{http://www.python.org/} & RRID:SCR\_008394 \\
Jupyter Notebook & \url{https://jupyter.org/} & RRID:SCR\_018315 \\
numpy & \url{http://www.numpy.org} & RRID:SCR\_008633 \\
pandas & \url{https://pandas.pydata.org} & RRID:SCR\_018214 \\
SSM & \url{https://github.com/lindermanlab/ssm} & N/A \\
\textbf{Matlab} & \url{https://www.mathworks.com/} & RRID:SCR\_001622 \\
Psychtoolbox 3 & \url{http://psychtoolbox.org/} & RRID:SCR\_002881 \\
\textbf{R} & \url{http://www.r-project.org/} & RRID:SCR\_001905 \\
RStudio & \url{https://www.rstudio.com/} & RRID:SCR\_000432 \\
lme4, afex, ggplot2, ggridges, gridExtra, tidyr, plyr &
\url{http://cran.r-project.org/} & RRID:SCR\_003005 \\
\end{longtable}

\newpage

\hypertarget{references}{%
\section*{References}\label{references}}
\addcontentsline{toc}{section}{References}

\hypertarget{refs}{}
\begin{CSLReferences}{0}{0}
\leavevmode\vadjust pre{\hypertarget{ref-Powers2017}{}}%
\CSLLeftMargin{1. }%
\CSLRightInline{Powers, A. R. \emph{et al.}
\href{https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aan3458}{Pavlovian
conditioning--induced hallucinations result from overweighting of
perceptual priors}. \emph{Science} \textbf{357}, 596--600 (2017).}

\leavevmode\vadjust pre{\hypertarget{ref-stuke_overly_2021}{}}%
\CSLLeftMargin{2. }%
\CSLRightInline{Stuke, H. \emph{et al.}
\href{https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2021.583637}{Overly {Strong}
{Priors} for {Socially} {Meaningful} {Visual} {Signals} {Are} {Linked}
to {Psychosis} {Proneness} in {Healthy} {Individuals}}. \emph{Frontiers
in Psychology} \textbf{12}, (2021).}

\leavevmode\vadjust pre{\hypertarget{ref-kafadar_modeling_2020}{}}%
\CSLLeftMargin{3. }%
\CSLRightInline{Kafadar, E. \emph{et al.}
\href{https://doi.org/10.1016/j.schres.2020.04.017}{Modeling perception
and behavior in individuals at clinical high risk for psychosis:
{Support} for the predictive processing framework}. \emph{Schizophrenia
Research} \textbf{226}, 167--175 (2020).}

\leavevmode\vadjust pre{\hypertarget{ref-kafadar_conditioned_2022}{}}%
\CSLLeftMargin{4. }%
\CSLRightInline{Kafadar, E. \emph{et al.}
\href{https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biopsych.2022.05.007}{Conditioned
{Hallucinations} and {Prior} {Overweighting} {Are} {State}-{Sensitive}
{Markers} of {Hallucination} {Susceptibility}}. \emph{Biological
Psychiatry} \textbf{92}, 772--780 (2022).}

\leavevmode\vadjust pre{\hypertarget{ref-leptourgos_relating_2022}{}}%
\CSLLeftMargin{5. }%
\CSLRightInline{Leptourgos, P. \emph{et al.}
\href{https://doi.org/10.1093/schbul/sbac006}{Relating {Glutamate},
{Conditioned}, and {Clinical} {Hallucinations} via {1H}-{MR}
{Spectroscopy}}. \emph{Schizophrenia Bulletin} \textbf{48}, 912--920
(2022).}

\leavevmode\vadjust pre{\hypertarget{ref-Horga2019}{}}%
\CSLLeftMargin{6. }%
\CSLRightInline{Horga, G. \emph{et al.}
\href{https://doi.org/10.1038/s41583-019-0234-1}{An integrative
framework for perceptual disturbances in psychosis}. \emph{Nature
Reviews Neuroscience} \textbf{20}, 763--778 (2019).}

\leavevmode\vadjust pre{\hypertarget{ref-schmack_striatal_2021}{}}%
\CSLLeftMargin{7. }%
\CSLRightInline{Schmack, K. \emph{et al.}
\href{https://doi.org/10.1126/science.abf4740}{Striatal dopamine
mediates hallucination-like perception in mice}. \emph{Science (New
York, N.Y.)} \textbf{372}, eabf4740 (2021).}

\leavevmode\vadjust pre{\hypertarget{ref-Sterzer2018}{}}%
\CSLLeftMargin{8. }%
\CSLRightInline{Sterzer, P. \emph{et al.}
\href{https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biopsych.2018.05.015}{The {Predictive}
{Coding} {Account} of {Psychosis}}. \emph{Biological Psychiatry}
\textbf{84}, 634--643 (2018).}

\leavevmode\vadjust pre{\hypertarget{ref-Corlett2019}{}}%
\CSLLeftMargin{9. }%
\CSLRightInline{Corlett, P. R. \emph{et al.}
\href{https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tics.2018.12.001}{Hallucinations and
{Strong} {Priors}.} \emph{Tics} \textbf{23}, 114--127 (2019).}

\leavevmode\vadjust pre{\hypertarget{ref-Howes2009}{}}%
\CSLLeftMargin{10. }%
\CSLRightInline{Howes, O. D. \emph{et al.}
\href{https://doi.org/10.1093/schbul/sbp006}{The dopamine hypothesis of
schizophrenia: {Version} {III} - {The} final common pathway}.
\emph{Schizophrenia Bulletin} \textbf{35}, 549--562 (2009).}

\leavevmode\vadjust pre{\hypertarget{ref-Corlett2016}{}}%
\CSLLeftMargin{11. }%
\CSLRightInline{Corlett, P. R. \emph{et al.}
\href{https://doi.org/10.1177/0269881116650087}{Prediction error,
ketamine and psychosis: {An} updated model}. \emph{Journal of
Psychopharmacology} \textbf{30}, 1145--1155 (2016).}

\leavevmode\vadjust pre{\hypertarget{ref-toh_phenomenology_2020}{}}%
\CSLLeftMargin{12. }%
\CSLRightInline{Toh, W. L. \emph{et al.}
\href{https://doi.org/10.1016/j.psychres.2020.113147}{On the
phenomenology of auditory verbal hallucinations in affective and
non-affective psychosis}. \emph{Psychiatry Research} \textbf{290},
113147 (2020).}

\leavevmode\vadjust pre{\hypertarget{ref-lopez-silva_phenomenology_2022}{}}%
\CSLLeftMargin{13. }%
\CSLRightInline{López-Silva, P. \emph{et al.}
\href{https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyt.2022.826654}{The phenomenology of
auditory verbal hallucinations in schizophrenia and the challenge from
pseudohallucinations}. \emph{Frontiers in Psychiatry} \textbf{13},
(2022).}

\leavevmode\vadjust pre{\hypertarget{ref-parnas_phenomenology_2024}{}}%
\CSLLeftMargin{14. }%
\CSLRightInline{Parnas, J. \emph{et al.}
\href{https://doi.org/10.1016/j.schres.2023.03.045}{Phenomenology of
auditory verbal hallucination in schizophrenia: {An} erroneous
perception or something else?} \emph{Schizophrenia Research}
\textbf{265}, 83--88 (2024).}

\leavevmode\vadjust pre{\hypertarget{ref-oorschot_temporal_2012}{}}%
\CSLLeftMargin{15. }%
\CSLRightInline{Oorschot, M. \emph{et al.}
\href{https://doi.org/10.1016/j.schres.2012.06.010}{Temporal dynamics of
visual and auditory hallucinations in psychosis}. \emph{Schizophrenia
Research} \textbf{140}, 77--82 (2012).}

\leavevmode\vadjust pre{\hypertarget{ref-hermans_temporal_2020}{}}%
\CSLLeftMargin{16. }%
\CSLRightInline{Hermans, K. \emph{et al.}
\href{https://doi.org/10.1016/j.psychres.2020.113039}{Temporal dynamics
of suspiciousness and hallucinations in clinical high risk and first
episode psychosis}. \emph{Psychiatry Research} \textbf{290}, 113039
(2020).}

\leavevmode\vadjust pre{\hypertarget{ref-murai_serial_2021}{}}%
\CSLLeftMargin{17. }%
\CSLRightInline{Murai, Y. \emph{et al.}
\href{https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cub.2021.05.006}{Serial dependence
revealed in history-dependent perceptual templates}. \emph{Current
biology: CB} \textbf{31}, 3185--3191.e3 (2021).}

\leavevmode\vadjust pre{\hypertarget{ref-weilnhammer_n-methyl-d-aspartate_2024}{}}%
\CSLLeftMargin{18. }%
\CSLRightInline{Weilnhammer, V. \emph{et al.} N-{Methyl}-{D}-aspartate
receptor hypofunction causes recurrent and transient failures of
perceptual inference. (2024)
doi:\href{https://doi.org/10.1101/2024.05.24.595590}{10.1101/2024.05.24.595590}.}

\leavevmode\vadjust pre{\hypertarget{ref-weilnhammer_bistable_2021}{}}%
\CSLLeftMargin{19. }%
\CSLRightInline{Weilnhammer, V. \emph{et al.}
\href{https://doi.org/10.1016/j.isci.2021.102234}{Bistable perception
alternates between internal and external modes of sensory processing}.
\emph{iScience} \textbf{24}, 102234 (2021).}

\leavevmode\vadjust pre{\hypertarget{ref-weilnhammer_sensory_2023}{}}%
\CSLLeftMargin{20. }%
\CSLRightInline{Weilnhammer, V. \emph{et al.}
\href{https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pbio.3002410}{Sensory processing
in humans and mice fluctuates between external and internal modes}.
\emph{PLOS Biology} \textbf{21}, e3002410 (2023).}

\leavevmode\vadjust pre{\hypertarget{ref-manassi_continuity_2024}{}}%
\CSLLeftMargin{21. }%
\CSLRightInline{Manassi, M. \emph{et al.}
\href{https://doi.org/10.1038/s44159-024-00297-x}{Continuity fields
enhance visual perception through positive serial dependence}.
\emph{Nature Reviews Psychology} \textbf{3}, 352--366 (2024).}

\leavevmode\vadjust pre{\hypertarget{ref-fischer_serial_2014}{}}%
\CSLLeftMargin{22. }%
\CSLRightInline{Fischer, J. \emph{et al.}
\href{https://doi.org/10.1038/nn.3689}{Serial dependence in visual
perception}. \emph{Nat. Neurosci.} \textbf{17}, 738--743 (2014).}

\leavevmode\vadjust pre{\hypertarget{ref-kiyonaga_serial_2017}{}}%
\CSLLeftMargin{23. }%
\CSLRightInline{Kiyonaga, A. \emph{et al.}
\href{https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tics.2017.04.011}{Serial {Dependence}
across {Perception}, {Attention}, and {Memory}}. \emph{Trends in
Cognitive Sciences} \textbf{21}, 493--497 (2017).}

\leavevmode\vadjust pre{\hypertarget{ref-pascucci_serial_2023}{}}%
\CSLLeftMargin{24. }%
\CSLRightInline{Pascucci, D. \emph{et al.}
\href{https://doi.org/10.1167/jov.23.1.9}{Serial dependence in visual
perception: {A} review}. \emph{Journal of Vision} \textbf{23}, 9
(2023).}

\leavevmode\vadjust pre{\hypertarget{ref-cicchini_serial_2024}{}}%
\CSLLeftMargin{25. }%
\CSLRightInline{Cicchini, G. M. \emph{et al.}
\href{https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-psych-021523-104939}{Serial
{Dependence} in {Perception}}. \emph{Annual Review of Psychology}
\textbf{75}, 129--154 (2024).}

\leavevmode\vadjust pre{\hypertarget{ref-manassi_serial_2023}{}}%
\CSLLeftMargin{26. }%
\CSLRightInline{Manassi, M. \emph{et al.}
\href{https://doi.org/10.1167/jov.23.8.18}{Serial dependence in visual
perception: {A} meta-analysis and review}. \emph{Journal of Vision}
\textbf{23}, 18 (2023).}

\leavevmode\vadjust pre{\hypertarget{ref-cicchini_functional_2018}{}}%
\CSLLeftMargin{27. }%
\CSLRightInline{Cicchini, G. M. \emph{et al.}
\href{https://doi.org/10.1098/rspb.2018.1722}{The functional role of
serial dependence}. \emph{Proceedings. Biological Sciences}
\textbf{285}, 20181722 (2018).}

\leavevmode\vadjust pre{\hypertarget{ref-ashwood_mice_2022}{}}%
\CSLLeftMargin{28. }%
\CSLRightInline{Ashwood, Z. C. \emph{et al.}
\href{https://doi.org/10.1038/s41593-021-01007-z}{Mice alternate between
discrete strategies during perceptual decision-making}. \emph{Nature
Neuroscience} \textbf{25}, 201--212 (2022).}

\leavevmode\vadjust pre{\hypertarget{ref-eckert_cross-modality_2023}{}}%
\CSLLeftMargin{29. }%
\CSLRightInline{Eckert, A.-L. \emph{et al.}
\href{https://doi.org/10.1093/schbul/sbac168}{Cross-{Modality}
{Evidence} for {Reduced} {Choice} {History} {Biases} in
{Psychosis}-{Prone} {Individuals}}. \emph{Schizophrenia Bulletin}
\textbf{49}, 397--406 (2023).}

\leavevmode\vadjust pre{\hypertarget{ref-Stein2020}{}}%
\CSLLeftMargin{30. }%
\CSLRightInline{Stein, H. \emph{et al.}
\href{https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-020-18033-3}{Reduced serial
dependence suggests deficits in synaptic potentiation in anti-{NMDAR}
encephalitis and schizophrenia}. \emph{Nature Communications}
\textbf{11}, 1--11 (2020).}

\end{CSLReferences}

\end{document}
